Yo, what's good family? I hope you all are doing well. And today I want to take the next step in our series of the Lord of All called Time. And I want to talk about time and how
How we use it
Alright, and here are a few facts about time that you may not have known.
You see, time passes faster for your face to
Then your feet
And that's assuming that you're standing up.
When the dinosaurs were alive there were 370 days in a year.
Not 365.
Time passes slower
The faster you move
Think about that for a second.
And lastly,
The oldest known object in the universe is a galaxy called z_gnd_5296.
You see, that's pretty dope. Time can tell a lot of things and time can specifically tell a lot of things about ourselves, especially how we use our time.
According to a study done by the HHS in 2018, the average young person spends about nine hours sleeping, about seven and a half hours in education, about 400 hours in education,
About four hours just chilling. And about an hour and a half eating.
And about two hours doing other things like volunteering, religious stuff, etc. You see, this makes me think about what I used to do in high school. You see, for me,
And me, I usually spend about two to three hours sleeping a night on a weeknight.
And that was just because I'm a night owl and I'm a very creative person when it comes to late nights. And I didn't really find that out until 2018.
I'm into my adulthood and, you know, answering questions about myself and
But, you know, I would usually be spending that time, you know, on Facebook, on MySpace at the time. And I'm showing my age here a little bit. Bear with me.
Um, listening to music, playing, you know, guitar when I couldn't play drums, um,
Playing video games of course
And, you know, just doing life, you know.
in the night time from about 9:00 p.m. to about
3 a.m. right and then trying to get a little bit of sleep and then having to get up and I brush my teeth and go outside to get on the bus and
And so with that being said, my time in school was usually spent sleeping with my head down on the desk.
You know, the most attention I paid to was the back of my eyelids, right? I could probably tell you how many veins I had on the back of my eyelids back then, you know?
And when I was at school and I was paying attention, it was probably when I was on lunch break.
Um, um,
When I was at Woodshop,
When i was in pe
when I was lifting weights or you know had practice
After the fact
Right?
And then I would come home and if I didn't have wrestling practice, if I didn't have youth group,
Or if i wasn't playing the drums i went straight to sleep
Until dinner time
Woke up.
And the whole thing started over again. And that was my routine. Except for when we got to the weekends, right? So on the weekends, I'll go to church and I'll play drums. I'll be in the youth group.
I would, you know, sing or, you know, try to hang out with pretty girls and talk to them.
But other than that, I'm just going to be...
That was the routine for me. You see, I wish I would have paid more attention and been more productive with the things that actually matter, you know, and not wait.
I wasted so much time. I wish I could have gone back and told my old self, be like, hey man, look, you need to stop being dumb. You need to pay more attention to the things that matter.
Or, you know, and specifically what God has told you to do. You know, I had a calling upon my life at a very, very early age.
And, um...
You know, it kind of just fell away.
for me because of the ebbs and flows of life and I think we all
You can, uh...
Level with that somewhere along the line you know
You're doing something really really good
You know that you probably felt like God called you to and you probably fell off
Because the ebbs and flows of life
It hits you harder.
Here's what I want you to do. Wherever you're at, unless you're driving, right?
I want you to close your eyes and I want you to think. I want you to think about everything.
Where you're at in your life right now.
And I want you to ask yourself, am I being the most productive with my time?
Okay am i being the most productive
With my time.
Doing the best that I can do to
not be lazy and not waste my time right secondly I want you to ask yourself am I using my time wisely and am I using it
for God and his purpose or my using it for my purpose and that kind of ties back into our message last week right am I doing what I'm doing
What I'm doing for God or am I doing it for my own selfish reasons? Right.
Right? But the question still stands.
Am I using my time wisely for what God wants or am I using it for what I want? No.
what does God
Have to say about how we use our time and if we're using it wisely or not
I want to read to you a passage of scripture or as Pastor Kelly told it to me, a pericope of scripture.
Um, um,
And it's in Ecclesiastes. It's in chapter 3. And it starts from verse 1 and goes all the way to 11. So if you are around the Bible or you got your phone, pull up.
Appalachia Bible Lab, and let's read along together. I'm going to read from the New Living Translation, okay? Okay.
And it says
A time for everything
For everything
There is a season.
Time for every activity under heaven
A time to be born and a time to die.
A time to plant and a time to harvest
A time to kill and a time to heal
A time to tear down and a time to build up.
A time to cry
And a time to laugh
A time to grieve and a time to dance
A time to scatter stones
And a time to gather stones
A time to embrace and a time to turn away.
A time to search
And a time to quit searching
A time to keep
In a time to throw away
A time to tear down
And a time to mend
A time to be quiet.
And the time to speak
A time to love and a time to hate
A time for war
In the time for peace.
What do people really get
For all of their hard work.
I have seen the burden of God.
As placed on us all
Yet God has made everything beautiful.
For its own time
He has planted eternity in the human heart.
But even so,
People cannot see
The whole scope
of God's work.
From beginning to end boom you made it through the scripture that's awesome there a couple of things i want to point out for you though that solomon touched on here okay first
Firstly, he said it's inevitable.
That we experience troubles and that we experience evil in life okay and secondly and
sometimes life is going to be boring. sometimes the routine that we're in is boring okay. think about the life that you're in now and you're in covid right?
Life isn't what it used to be right it's a new day it's a new age new opportunities right but we're so stuck in our ways that we get bored
A board of what we're doing, right? We've done everything. We've played the video games. We've been talking to our friends. We've been talking to girls. We've been talking to guys. We've been eating all the food that we wanted to, right?
Now, life is slowly starting to get back to what it was, right? But there are all these confinements that we have to adhere to in order to get back to life.
And what we know as life, right? Right.
We gotta wear a face mask we gotta do this we gotta do that
Okay
Secondly, the thing that
Solomon points out.
He says,
There are good things and there are bad things and where there are bad things there are good things and we can't escape that
Thirdly, this list that Solomon points out, you know, we need to be taking full advantage of our time that God has given us. And the second to last,
The last thing is that we can hide ourselves.
The fact that we have eternity in our hearts because we are made in God's image okay remember that one and lastly God has not revealed
feel much of his eternal work yet, right? So that's why we have the yearning inside of us to leave that eternal, holy life.
You see where this is going? In the reality of the situation, there is nothing here on this earth that
That can practically fulfill us
Or make us feel like we're using our time wisely
More than doing
what God has called us to do.
Right?
Think about that for a second as I say that again.
There's nothing here.
On this earth.
Practically or intellectually.
That will make us feel like we're doing
Anything productive
Like spending our time
Doing what Jesus has called us to do. And you might be like, well, Pastor Tone, that just can't be true because there are so many people in this world that are extremely productive.
and don't necessarily call themselves Christians.
Okay
But I want you to think about something.
I want you to think about this.
Is it entirely possible
That the reason why these people are
Go-getters.
Maybe it might be you.
Well it was me for some time right
Maybe why we're...
All the go so much
Is because we're not fulfilled.
Is because we don't feel like we're being productive enough
Right?
We took a stride in, you know, scheduling out our day.
Doing better things waking up meditating praying
Doing our morning workout then going and drinking coffee and then you know doing some school work or
And getting ourselves ready for school and going and banging out all the work for the day and then going to sports, doing extracurricular activities and coming home, getting some more work done, eating a good dinner.
And then you know not playing video games and then going to sleep and wake up and doing all over again, right? And then you're getting on the right track and
Right?
Now ultimately we've done these things for ourselves okay
Where does God come in the mix of this, right?
How are we doing with Matthew 28?
He said, go out and make disciples of all the nations.
I'm baptizing him in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Okay? We're going to start. That starts with the conversation, right? That starts with giving your testimony. That starts with sharing the faith, right?
If spreading the gospel, have you spent much time doing that?
That's the productivity I'm talking about.
Producing.
Right?
Producing those type of results.
The things that God wants us to do.
What would your life look like if you started doing what God has asked you to do?
Using your time productively
To do what he's asked you to do.
Think about it.
Maybe you got a place in life where
You know, you fell off, right?
You started going through the ebbs and flows of life
And you fell off the horse.
Maybe you need a helping hand getting back up.
Maybe God has been whispering to you. Maybe God's been telling you with his still small voice.
That is hands out
Reaching to you
And he wants you to continue the fight
He wants you to continue to be productive with your time and use it wisely
Literally, you just need a helping hand. Well, you got it.
Maybe you haven't started it
Because you don't know what your purpose is
Well, I encourage you to go check out Matthew chapter 28 and read verses 18 through 20.
And that will give you a sound purpose to begin to follow.
And that will begin to allow you to ask questions.
The people like myself.
And people that know the scriptures well.
Say, "Hey, where do I go from here?"
That's a good start in being productive with your time.
My hope and my prayer for each and every one of you.
Is that you begin
If you haven't already
To use your time wisely for what god
Has asked you to do
And if you've been doing that my prayer for you is to continue fighting the good fight
And know that the work is not done right we need to continue to build on our productivity right
In our time that we use for god
In the time that we use for ourselves because there is a balance
Right there's good and there's bad
There's always going to be trouble. There's always going to be evil.
Right? But it's God that brings us through.
It's God.
Let me pray for you.
God, we just thank you so much, God. And we come humbly at your feet asking you, God.
Asking you in surrender
Of our lives and our time
That we would use it productively
For what you've asked us to do, God.
And let's go out and make disciples of all the nations.
Baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, God.
And then continually growing
In our faithful.
Becoming spiritually mature, God.
And then sharing our story
In testimony
What about what you've done in us, God?
And how you've taken our weakness, God, and you've turned it into a strength.
And that same thing can be done.
In another's life.
Look how we think you right now.
For what you've done we thank you for what you're going to do in advance
And in the things that we cannot see.
And God, we yearn for you.
It's in Jesus' name that we pray.
Amen.
But guys, I love you and I believe in each and every one of you. I want to see you soar. I want to see you do great things.
And until next time.
Love.
Peace
And chicken grease